>> Steve Kinney: There's more
than one way that kind of,
we deal with identity on the web.
But let's start with probably, I think
it's safe to say the most common one,
which is cookies, right?
The web HTTP is effectively stateless,
right?
Which means there's no idea
of you are logged in and
authenticated except that
we kind of cheat, right?
There is basically this mutually
accepted by both servers in the browser,
where you'd be you tell me who I am,
server.
I'm gonna hold on to that.
I'm gonna keep reminding you of who
I am on every subsequent request,
which then takes a stateless protocol and
has this idea of what we will
in this workshop call a session.
Most of us I would assume have
used the internet before and
you do not necessarily
need to be logged in but
a common way is you've logged in now
further requests are, you are you.
And we'll kind of this tweet will now come
from you because you have access to do it,
you have access to these pages.
You can see these certain resources,
you can put this stuff in your cart.
And you don't necessarily
need to be logged in, right?
There's a whole industry of tracking and
advertising that is just,
they don't necessarily know who you are.
They just know about all the guitars you
looked at in the last week, all right?
And can show you reverb ads in the middle
of researching a bunch of stuff on web
security.
And then you get distracted, and you
go look at guitars for a little bit, so
on and so forth.
And sometimes you'll see the experience
where you can add stuff to a shopping
cart, then you go to check out,
and you maybe you log in, or
you create an account and
your cart Is still persisted.
So on and so forth that's again cookies.
So it's not always tied to,
authentication and authorization.
But for our purposes that's the one we're
interested in finding some rondo shopping
cart without any payment information.
Sure steal that cookie, I guess.
But usually you want the one with
the credit card attached to it.
And for our purposes, we care mostly about
that kind of authenticated user session,
but obviously cookies are used for
a bunch of things and
the technology works either way.
And the interesting part about cookies
is like many things on the Internet,
the original implementation was
kind of fast and loose, right?
There is, story with the image tag,
which is,
there was a whole long thread
when we're gonna add images
to web pages about what does
the semantics of the image tag be?
And Netscape got annoyed and
just shipped the image tag that
we all know and love today.
And it's well, we did it.
And so that's the one we have now.
And that's why we have
six others at this point,
very similar Netscape again,
in 94 I think the original implementation,
they only spent a few days on it,
and it had no spec whatsoever.
It was just a thing that Netscape did,
most of the early stages of
the internet now, also all of us who write
JavaScript have a lot of empathy for
our good friend ES4,
which never actually existed.
There was an attempt to
standardize it in 97.
Another one called Cookie2,
which were incompatible changes, right?
And that's a theme that we're gonna see,
which is there are some things on
the web that we know are broken.
And we know are terrible, but
you can't break the web sometimes you can.
Sometimes Google and Chrome will
just decide new rules, deal with it.
But generally speaking, some of the worst
parts of securing your web application
are choices people made during the grunge
era right, and now we live with them.
So yeah, an attempt to specify in 2000,
and then finally, in 2011,
we actually got a real spec for it.
But that means that there was more
time that it was completely unspecced
than we've actually had it, with actual
specification and actually rules.
And kind of cross browser support.
The nice part is, we live in the web
standards world now where, luckily,
a lot of these things are easier,
not always the case.
We'll see different browsers roll
stuff out at different times, and
eventually, all of them, sometimes maybe,
but a cookie is set as a header, right?
We will spend a lot of time to actually,
you will not only learn how to secure your
web app, you will also just learn way more
than you ever wanted to know about how the
web actually works in the HTTP protocol.
And how servers and browsers do their
dance together as a accident because
ultimately that is what
we are trying to secure.
So, when we've got a cookie that has
been set, there's a set cookie header on
a response, and then the browser is,
I will hold on to that value, and
we'll kind of see where Chrome can hold
on to it, and we can see the cookies.
And then on subsequent requests, and
we'll talk about, for
how long and why, and whatever.
It's hey, remember when you told me,
after I logged in that my username or
my session ID was whatever I'm
reminding you again, this is who I am.
And this is critical to securing our
applications, because if somebody else
can say I am Bobby Tables in this case,
right then, guess what?
As far as the service concerned,
they are, right?
There's not extra, there is little things
you can do or bigger things, right,
two-factor auth, so on and so forth.
But it is somewhat difficult
to then if you can say that,
if you can prove that you are,
even if you're not,
the person who really is that
person has a real problem.
And so we'll kind of see how to
deal with that as we go along.
And it's weird, right?
Most things, there is a document.cookie
in the DOM that you can access.
And it's kind of weird, which is if you
then set it to different values as you go
along, you're this should
change the cookie completely.
It doesn't, just actually
appends it to the cookie, right?
And this is kind of the initial first
thing of this stuff is weird, and
that's kind of what makes it a both
really interesting attack vector.
And a somewhat one that if you're kind
of just going in with the I know how
JavaScript works.
I know how the web works, you will have
these little blind spots that, again,
nobody really likes to
deal with this stuff.
Nobody really likes to be the person
responsible for the multi-million
dollar vulnerability, and
we will see some of those as we go along.
And so, it's these little
places in the gaps in our
understanding where the attackers thrive,
right?
And so
we'll kind of play around with that.
In at any point you can do this on
any webpage because again the web is
code executing in your browser.
You can open up the developer tools and
go to the application tab and
you can kind of see that sidebar.
You can see the cookies that
are set on your browser right now.
Now it is just one string right?
But the browser kinda looks for
the semicolons, parses it out, and
puts in a table for you, and you kinda
get a sense as you're developing,
are these behaving
the way I think they are?
Do these look correct,
and so on, and so forth?
I also bring this up because we're gonna
work on a bunch of apps, we're gonna break
into them, we're probably gonna wanna
clean up after ourselves occasionally.
You can go in here and
delete your cookies as well.